Overseas today, the vice president met
with European allies to discuss the war
in Ukraine ahead of President Trump's
summit with Putin. Ukrainian President
Vladimir Zalinsky has rejected the idea
that his country would seed land to end
the war with Russia. ABC's Chuck
Civerstein has details.
>> Vice President JD Vance in the UK this
weekend meeting with European allies as
President Trump prepares to meet with
Russia's President Vladimir Putin. A US
official telling ABC News the talks
produced significant progress toward
President Trump's goal of bringing an
end to the war in Ukraine. President
Trump missing his own deadline to impose
sanctions on Russia
instead agreeing to meet with Putin in
Alaska on Friday, marking the Russian
president's first meeting with a major
Western leader since Russia invaded
Ukraine more than three years ago.
Ukraine's President Zilinski will not be
at that summit. He held a flurry of
calls with European leaders. Zilinsky
warning. Everyone can clearly see
Putin's tactics. He fears sanctions and
is doing everything to bail on him. He
wants to gain territorial spoils for the
second time already. French President
Mcronone saying the future of Ukraine
cannot be decided without the
Ukrainians. President Trump has
suggested a peace deal would involve
exchanging territory.
>> There'll be some swapping of territories
to the betterment of both. According to
the Wall Street Journal, Europe and
Ukraine have presented their own peace
plan to top US officials. It stipulates
that seeding any land must be backed by
ironclad security guarantees, including
potential NATO membership for Ukraine
and rejects Russia's proposal to hand
over Ukrainian held parts of the Dome
region. And although Zilinski will not
be at Friday's summit, President Trump
says he remains open to a trilateral
summit with both Putin and Zalinski.
Chuck Severson, ABC News, New York.